# hiv-resistance-analytics

This is still a work in progress, but the gist of my project is a data engineering pipeline and analytics engine using HIV drug resistance data from Stanford University's [HIVDB](https://hivdb.stanford.edu/). Eventually, I plan on piping in supplementary data from chemical and/or pharmacology database(s), but the Stanford dataset will comprise the core of my data lakehouse.

I've used `Terraform` to automate resource provisioning, and then `Kestra` will be used for the actual orchestration once the resources are online. Additionally, `Docker` will be used for reproducibility and for hosing my Kestra instance. I used `dlt` to extract the datasets from HIVDB's servers into a local `duckDB` database. 

Next, I used `boto3` (Amazon AWS's [Python API](https://aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-python/)) to ingest the datasets into `AWS S3` storage as parquet files. `AWS Glue` then read each of the parquet files and generated tables from them. The tables were loaded inside `AWS Athena`, which is a serverless analytics platform somewhat analogous to BigQuery. The combination of Glue and Athena on top of S3 storage can be conceptualized as a "lakehouse" architecture, blurring the lines between traditional data lakes and data warehousing. 

Now that data is loaded, `dbt` will be used perform transformations. Once I have my final datasets and have identified which analytics I want to present to my audience, I will upload my final tables into [`Supabase`](https://supabase.com/). I am already familiar with this platform and have used it to built apps in the past, so it was a natural choice for me. At its core, Supabase provides a cloud-based Postgres database (which actually uses AWS under the hood). And then its Javascript/Python APIs make it easy to develop frontends and attach them to PG backends. In this case, I'm planning on using Streamlit to build my dashboard. 
